The   February   TIOBE   Index  of  the  most
most   programming   languages  is  out,  and
and  the  work  going on in the background of
of  calculations  has  changed,  not much has
has   in   the   way   of   rankings.  Python
Python  to  sit  atop  the  index, with C and
and  directly  behind it. In Feb. 2021, those
those  also  occupied  the top spot, but with
with  in  the  number  three  position,  C at
at  and  Java in second place. Beyond the top
top  there  hasn’t  been  much  movement in
in  index,  with positions four through eight
eight  from  the  same  time last year. Those
Those  are  occupied,  respectively,  by C++,
C++,   Visual   Basic,  JavaScript  and  PHP.
PHP.  nine  and  10  swapped  from Feb. 21 to
to   with   Assembly  Language  and  SQL  now
now  each  other’s  positions.  The one big
big  of  note between Feb. 2021 and Feb. 2022
2022  with  the  Groovy programming language,
language,    object-oriented   language   for
for  Over  the  course  of  the  year, Groovy
Groovy  from  12th  position  all  the way to
to   putting   it  perilously  close  to  the
the   programming  languages”  list.  TIOBE
TIOBE   Paul   Jansen  attributes  Groovy’s
Groovy’s   to   the  growth  in  the  CI/CD
CI/CD  Groovy  was the only language used for
for   scripts   on   Jenkins,   which  Jansen
Jansen   as  having  been  “the  only  real
real  in  the  CI/CD domain” early on. Now,
Now,  platforms  that don’t require Groovy,
Groovy,  GitHub,  Azure  DevOps  and  GitLab,
GitLab,  is  losing  its  place at the table.
table.  could  have  grown further because it
it  the  major  script-based  alternative for
for   running   on  the  same  JVM.  However,
However,  is  taking over that position right
right  so  I  think  Groovy  will have a hard
hard  Jensen  said.  The  TIOBE index may not
not   full   of  surprises  this  month,  but
but  did  have  a  lot to say about the index
index  this  month, as this is the first time
time  has  been compiled using Similarweb’s
Similarweb’s  analysis  platform instead of
of  “We  have used Similarweb for the first
first  this  month  to  select search engines
engines   fortunately,   there   are  no  big
big  in  the index due to this swap. The only
only   difference   is   that   the   top   3
3  Python,  C, and Java, all gained more than
than   percent  in  the  rankings,”  Jansen
Jansen  TIOBE  decided  to  make  the  switch
switch  month  after  Amazon’s announcement
announcement   December   2021  that  it  was
was  the  Alexa  web  ranking  service  down,
down,  May  1,  2022,  ending 25 years of the
the  Jansen  noted that not every website has
has   onboarded,   but  that  the  switch  to
to  included  a  switch  to using HtmlUnit, a
a  web  browser  with APIs that let Java apps
apps   pages,   fill   forms   and  do  other
other  web  browsing  activity.  This  switch
switch  eventually  allow  TIOBE  to  include
include  it  was unable to crawl before, like
like  and  Github,  which could have a larger
larger on scores. 
